Barnase alanine-scan Example
-----------------------
The barnase alanine-scan example requires 1 R script (barnase_alascan.r), to perform alanine-scan mutagenesis 
and electrostatic similarity distance (ESD) clustering. We have published an analysis similar to this example in 
the Journal of Non-Crystalline Solids:

	Kieslich, C.A., Gorham, R.D., and Morikis, D. (2011) Is the rigid-body assumption reasonable? 
	Insights into the effects of dynamics on the electrostatic analysis of barnase-barstar. 
	J. Non-Cryst. Solids, 357(2): 707-716.
	
The script should be ran using the R environment. After opening the R environment [simply run the command R in
the terminal] first check the working directory using the command getwd(). Then be sure to navigate to the 
barnase_alascan directory using setwd() [eg. setwd("/Users/ckieslich/aesop-1.0.0/examples/barnase_alascan")]. 
The script can be executed using the command source("NAME") [eg. source("barnase_alascan.r")].   

(i)   barnase_alascan.r  - This script performs the entire analysis, from generating PQR and electrostatic 
potential (DX) files for alanine-scan mutants, as well as generates the ESD distance 
matrix and performs hierarchical clustering. Only a few inputs are needing to run the analysis, and these are:
	
	1) pdb.name  = Name of the parent PDB file ("barnase.pdb") 
	2) cent.on   = Root name of the PDB structure to which all calculations should be centered. This should be the
				   same as the parent structure for alanine-scan analysis ("barnase")

In addition to these inputs other parameters can also be changed if desired, but default parameters are supplied. The
first parameter that may be of interest is the force field (ff argument of ala.scan) that is used in the generation 
of PQR files. The default for AESOP is CHARMM, since this has been optimized for electrostatic calculations. However, 
other force fields such as AMBER and PARSE are available (for more details see: 
http://www.poissonboltzmann.org/pdb2pqr/user-guide/using-pdb2pqr). 

The next set of parameters that should be considered are the input parameters for electrostatic potential calculations
performed by APBS. These parameters can be changed manually by changing the dime, fglen, and cglen in the apbsin.solv 
object. Also, by default the fglen is set to the cglen provided by psize, since for clustering it is preferred to have 
the fglen and cglen to be equal. In this AESOP example the parameters are set by the function apbsin.solv(), which uses 
the following default values for APBS keywords:     

APBS Defalut Parameters (Solvated state)
-----------------------------------------
	lpbe
	bcfl sdh
	srfm smol
	chgm spl2
	ion 1 0.150 2.0
	ion -1 0.150 2.0
	pdie  20.0
	sdie  78.54
	sdens  10.0
	srad  0.0
	swin  0.3
	temp  298.15
	
	For more details, regarding the possible keywords and their meaning please visit: 
	http://www.poissonboltzmann.org/apbs/user-guide/running-apbs/input-files/elec-input-file-section/elec-keywords

The ESD used in this example is LD (a.k.a AND). The outputs of this script include a directory of PQR files, a directory 
of DX files, an image of the ESD dendrogram, and a R binary file (.dat file) containing all of the objects generated in 
this AESOP analysis. This file, and therefore these objects, can be loaded for later use using the R load() function. 
